hellish scenes in the Gaza Strip as
Israel's Onslaught continues into the
last supposed safe Zone in the South
cooking tips from the front lines
Israeli soldiers gorge on stolen food as
gazin starve patriotic lessons in the
classroom and Military activities after
school it's what happens when Kremlin
propaganda is part of the
curriculum for more than 4 months the
world has watched as Israeli forces have
mowed their way down the length of the
Gaza Strip the last major hospital nasar
hospital in Kanan Yunis was stormed this
past week details of what's taken place
there are horrific further south more
than a million Palestinians have been
crammed into the city of rafah where the
threat of an Israeli ground Invasion
looms the stated goal is to eliminate
hamas's leadership and rescue more
hostages but there's also the Spectre of
Palestinians being forced over the
border into Egypt
the fact that this war has reached this
point where the almost complete
depopulation of Gaza is a real
possibility and where even an order from
the international court of justice seems
unable to prevent it reflects a global
failure to hold Israel accountable
Western media Outlets which minimize
Israel's atrocities and amplify its
propaganda exemplify that failure all
eyes are on the south of Gaza and Rafa
the question is how much longer will the
annihilation go on
raah at this stage in the war represents
the distillation of a concerted strategy
on the part of Israel to effectively
depopulate the Gaza Strip under the
pretense of self-defense and a war
against Hames prior to October 7th Gaza
was described as an open a prison today
I don't know if there's really a
description for it besides a very very
very densely populated concentration
camp and that concentration Camp's name
is
Rafa in a war of Horrors the images from
Southern Gaza have given new potency to
the very notion of horror the coring of
a desperate population 1.5 million
Palestinians in the city of Rafa has the
air of an end game the majority of
people there are refugees from elsewhere
in Gaza they're living in tents any
possibility of safety has evaporated
there are bombs from the sky a looming
ground Invasion and even in supposed
non-combat zones there are targeted
drone attacks such as the one on two Al
jazer journalists in
Rafa a wretched situation for gazans has
become much more so Israel has killed
nearly 30,000 Palestinians thousands
more are missing under the rubble more
than a million Palestinians are now
stuck in ra a so-called safe Zone but
Israel is bombing there we have
Palestinian Ians who are displaced from
their homes they're diseased they're
living under tents in the cold without
limbs without family members and they're
just staying there with nowhere to go
you've had these people in Gaza being
penned closer and closer into a corner
and you can sense that there's an
endgame where I mean either the
Palestinians will have to be pushed out
to the sea or into Egypt right those are
really the only two options it seems in
the sense is that you are now while
putting Palestinians in a Kill Zone
the ethnic cleansing being carried out
by Israel has been Justified
domestically and internationally by an
endlessly looping Narrative of a battle
for survival against Hamas prime
minister Benjamin Neta who showed up on
American news channels last week making
the case for the invasion of Rafa we've
already destroyed 34 of the Hamas
organized terrorist battalions 3/4s 18
out of 24 we're not going to leave the
other six it's like you leaving a
quarter of Isis in Iraq Place
netanyahu's talking points were packed
with stats about Hamas losses that no
one has been able to verify and of
course there was the Trope created by
Israel since October 7th of Hamas being
the same as Isis obviously Isis would
reestablish itself Hamas Isis would
reestablish itself too a fundamental
piece of the war narrative that
Netanyahu reiterates virtually every
time he gets in front of a camera is of
the October 7th operation by Hamas
against Israel put yourself in Israel's
shoes uh we were attacked unprovoked
attack murderous attack on October 7th
for many Israelis October 7th is not
something that just ended on October 7th
every single day almost 24 hours a day
the coverage is is all about what
happened on that
day there's constantly new testimony
from from victims from survivors
from those now that are coming back from
being hostage in Gaza and those stories
are constantly being shown to Israelis
um and very much it's still part of the
discourse it is Israel's quote unquote
911 the worst tragedy that has befallen
Israel since the Holocaust and that ju
the position of the Holocaust on October
7th it's a strategic decision that
marries those two narratives and
explains that the only way to avoid a
future holoc cost for Israel is this
war it doesn't matter how far we've
traveled in terms of days uh and weeks
and months or even in terms of how much
change has happened on the ground the
costs of lives to Palestinians nothing
equates with the losses of October 7th
the laser-like focus from Israeli news
outlets on the October 7th attacks has a
flip side an almost total Erasure of the
suffering their army has inflicted on
the people of
Gaza the situation in Gaza is largely
absent from the coverage altogether that
it's just focused right now on the
Israeli narrative on what the idef is
presenting of what's happening in Gaza
and not necessarily about the civilians
are being impacted if you do have some
sort of coverage about the civilian
situation in Gaza it's usually at minute
40 of the first hour of the main news
broadcast Western news outlets have a
habit of downplaying atrocities
committed by Israel's military last week
the IDF launched a bombing raid in Rafa
which they said secured the release of
two Israeli hostages big news also late
last night the Israeli military rescuing
two hostages from Southern Gaza in a
special forces operation this is the
hostage rescue dominated the headlines
relegated to the the margins was the
fact that more than 70 Palestinians were
killed in the process the reporting
Falls within a pattern that has repeated
itself across the Decades of the Israel
Palestine conflict and has been
glaringly evident during this war it's
clear that Western media's coverage has
been I have to say lacking and of course
you know I say this and and I'm a member
of that Matrix of the western media but
at the same time if you consider the way
this has been done the language that we
use right the stories that we amplify
Etc I mean the main picture you get of
course is is that the suffering of
Israelis is more important right more
significant there are so many factors
that contribute to the bias that we see
every day things like using emotive
language calling uh the killing of
Israelis a slaughter a massacre but the
killing of nearly 30,000 Palestinians is
not described as such we look at the AP
headline where they call children minors
there's a deliberate omission of
Palestinian in humanity in Western media
and it needs to be questioned and these
organizations need to be held
accountable the culmination and the
outcome of this type of sustained
coverage that actively humanizes
Israelis and actively dehumanizes
Palestinians is the fact that it
cultivates uh
sensitization for Israeli loss and a
complete desensitization to Palestinian
loss so
we can continue to see Palestinians be
killed in mass and not bat an eyet
because what a Palestinian is good for
is to die you know but on the contrary
Israeli lives are lives to be rescued
the continued arming of a military that
does this to Palestinians is Justified
on the grounds that it is saving humans
from
non-humans the United States has been
Israel's Chief sponsor and support not
just during this war it's a relationship
that has spanned decades Israel is the
military power it is today thanks to the
aid the US has supplied amounting to
$300 billion since the country's
creation since Israel launched its war
on Gaza in October last year President
Biden has opened the coffers even wider
bypassing Congress to send tens of
billions of dollars more in weapons and
ammunition with no restrictions on their
use those actions speak louder than the
statements of concern from Washington as
Israeli forces close in on the
Palestinians in Rafa the the major
military operation Raa should not
proceed without a credible plan a
credible plan for ensuring the safety
and support of more than 1 million
people Sheltering there they need to be
protected there is a performance of
concern for Palestinian lives and at
least an implication that there is some
dialogue between the Biden
Administration and the Netanyahu uh
government over the conduct of the war
um whether that is true or not in fact
nothing has changed on the ground I
would argue the B Administration has
actually doubled down on trying to help
Israel I mean for weapons deliveries
that's all being fast-tracked I mean
often times it's happening now without
Congress so this situation really
encapsulates I think the schizophrenic
nature of what we see from the US
Administration where on the one hand you
know we will have these you know
occasionally let's say you know probium
filled uh statements saying that Israel
must do better blah blah blah and then
on the other hand you see them really
ramping up support and diplomatically
they're Shoring it
up and if you look at sort of the images
that come out of it's the desperation
that now seems to be much more than
before you know there's a sense that
really it's the end then there's nowhere
else to
go is Israel is using starvation as a
weapon of war in Gaza some Israeli
officials have been quite open about it
which made a story this week in the
harat newspaper about Israeli soldiers
feasting in Palestinian homes all the
more sickening Nick has more on that
story as you say Mina Northern Gaza is
facing a famine however the article
profiled Israeli soldiers who have made
themselves at home in Palestinian
households cooking meals with the quote
delicious ingredients they find the
article reads like a life style column
not something written in the middle of a
war zone and what it does not say is
that those Israeli soldiers are in
kitchens belonging to displaced
Palestinians and the food they are
eating has been looted the article did
say that the soldiers had mixed feelings
about what they were doing but made
peace with it because quote the better
we ate the better we fought but again no
mention of the latest figures from the
world food program which says that many
Palestinians are now eating half a meal
every two days
the taunting of hungry Garin has become
habitual in Israel for months soldiers
have been posting videos of their meals
the kitchens they've pillaged and even
the food stores and supplies they've
destroyed Israeli businesses have made
promotional videos of the food carts
they've sent to troops on the front
lines Israeli activists and settlers
have physically stopped food aid from
entering Gaza but the fact that haets a
paper that once had a reputation for
being left leaning and critical of their
occupation is publishing this kind of
content shows in the Israeli media there
are vanishingly few voices of Reason
thanks Nick onto another War the one
that began in February 2022 with
Russia's invasion of Ukraine since then
the Kremlin has invested considerably in
managing domestic perceptions of the war
including amongst younger citizens
digital mainstream and alternative media
are used to disseminate partial facts
sometimes even outright fiction School
textbooks have been Rewritten too ever
since he came into power in 1999
Vladimir Putin and his government have
invested in indoctrinating the youth
reforming School curricula patriotic
narratives in the classroom and youth
armies all of these have been
long-standing elements in moscow's
campaign to mold the Next Generation
with the war dragging on the
government's youth propaganda has
escalated educational institutions have
become part of an orchestrated effort to
shaped loyal militarized nationalists
and passive media consumers the
listening posts Tark NAFA now on the use
of Education in the kremlin's propaganda
[Music]
machine we see a very typical
representation of a Russian School child
she's she's white she is ethnically
Russian she's dressed in a perfect
little dress and perfect little
pigtails she is the Putin government's
representation of a sort of average
Russian little
[Music]
girl so what we see in the video are a
number of myths and outright lies and
conspiracy theories that explain that
the war is really about Western Powers
using Ukraine as a as a puppet regime to
get
Russia March 3rd 2022 one week after
Russia's fullscale invasion of Ukraine
13-year-old TV presenter and singer sfia
Kenco is giving a lesson called
Defenders Of
Peace broadcast online by Russia's
education Ministry it's an introduction
to the kremlin's official narrative on
the war aimed at Sophia's peers school
children since the start of the war
Russia's youth have been a key Target of
the state's messaging last September
when students returned for the start of
the school year they found their history
textbooks had been Rewritten and a new
class had been added to the syllabus
mandatory patriotism
called important
conversations every Monday first lesson
in Russian schools uh is dedicated to
conversations about
[Music]
patriotism millions of children in
Russia unfortunately are forced to
listen to
false arguments about politics about
patriotism about war about how important
it is that Russian soldiers are in
Ukraine and how Vladimir Putin is the
only solution to all the problems in in
Russia the new school history textbook
is aimed at students who are about to
leave school and students who might go
on potentially to join the Army so
history for them is a really vital part
of educating them as future soldiers and
as future regime
supporters what we see in the textbook
is the Russians as victims surrounded by
enemies desperate to undermine Russia
and children are taught that they should
be suspicious of so-called foreign
agents that they should be suspicious of
any non-official media because
everything outside of the state
everything outside of Russia is full of
lies and myth truths education is one of
the most important vectors to try to
spread the information and Russian
government understand that this is a
prolonged conflict and they are trying
to spread their message to the younger
people to cement this message across the
country the school children are
encouraged to only trust the official
sources so it is quite an important
proportion trying to encourage certain
one-sided consumption of news but also
it encourages people to just tune out of
of the
news a more nationalist vision of
schooling that sees educ ation as a
carrier of patriotic values has been
years in the making in Russia after the
fall of the Soviet Union moscow's
oversight over education was tested
there was a lack of funding a lack of
vision some schools tried to westernized
their curriculums others embraced a more
Regional approach and began teaching in
local
languages everything changed When
Vladimir Putin took office in
1999 control over public education was
gradually centralized a new federal
curriculum was
introduced and extracurricular
nationalist groups were created with the
aim of fostering a state centered
national identity Putin's government
recognized from the very beginning the
importance of co-opting the youth so so
to speak uh during the 2000s there were
the popular youth movements uh Nashi
mardia those who proclaimed the support
for Putin and then uh during the 2010s
uh they were trying to lure younger
people into government jobs and trying
to present this option of if you're not
outspoken against the state you're fine
you can have your beautiful
life we asked Russia's education
Ministry for an interview they never got
back to us since Russia invaded Ukraine
in 2022 Russian Society has been
transformed
fundamentally virtually all independent
journalism inside the country has
disappeared dissidents have been exiled
anti-war protests outlawed which leaves
Russia's youth with nobody to look up to
but voices endorsed by the
Kremlin they are being told to conform
starting in the classroom who is and who
should be their Heroes um are of course
the representativ of the system are of
course the representatives of the state
the
government for example Thea kandelaki
she is a diva style anchor on a TV
program for the kids she is talented she
is bright and she is absolutely Pro
Kremlin media literacy means
understanding that the states media and
the states reality is the only media and
the only reality that can be trusted
that children are told that figures like
Alex noal yarina Schulman other
opposition leaders mik kovski for
example are working with the CIA with
America seeking to undermine Russia and
what children learn
therefore is that their job is to repeat
what they
hear instilling young people with a
sense of loyalty and dedication to the
state is not just an ideological
exercise Russia is a country reliant on
new conscripts and undisclosed number of
young soldiers have been killed in
Ukraine the Kremlin wants to increase
its combat Personnel by 30% a more
malleable militarized generation of
Russians will help with thata
what across the country the state has
introduced War museums and memorials in
schools there are currently 22,000 of
them in operation it's part of a Putin
directive to open museums in every
region of Russia they are places of
commemoration but of a distorted history
where young Russians are told that true
patriotism comes with
self-sacrifice one of the more
disturbing trends that we might see in
Russian schools is plaques being erected
to graduates of high schools who have
died in the so-called special military
operation hailed as models of the best
kind of Russian you can possibly be so
what we see with the museums that are
being erected is that these are places
of pilgrimage where Russians pay tribute
to the sacrifices of the past and the
sacrifices of the present and in
particular the supposed Utopia that's
going to come from a future victory in
the war against Ukraine and against the
West these museums are having just one
main goal they're trying to teach
children that this war in Ukraine right
now is something similar to the Second
World War uh the Great Patriotic War the
problem is that in the Great Patriotic
War Soviet Union was saving the world
from fascism and right now Russia is on
the opposite side that's why they're
having such a big campaign because it's
really hard to explain what the hell is
going on and why Russia is killing
ukrainians and why Russian soldiers are
dying in closing a postcript to our lead
report on the situation in the south of
Gaza there was a lot we could not
include in that story images of Israel
killings of civilians that are too
graphic they serve as records of a war
that has shattered multiple laws of
combat and human rights all of them need
serious trigger warnings before we put
them on the air and yet what we showed
in our report and what this network
broadcasts from Gaza on a daily basis is
significantly more than what makes it
onto many other outlets we're
approaching 5 months of this war and
while we will keep an eye on stories
around the world our Focus will remain
on Gaza as the campaign to displace and
ethnically cleansed Palestinians reaches
its most dangerous phase this is not the
time for journalists to turn away we'll
see you next time here are the listening
post